# **Super-SNID Templates**

SNID (SuperNova IDentification) is a widely used astronomy tool which is capable of determining the type, redshift and age from explosion of an observed spectrum by cross-matching with a library of templates. To date, default SNID contains few to no examples of rarer transient types discovered since the tool's creation. "Super-SNID" is a vastly expanded library of templates for SNID which improves its capability to age and identify these rarer transient subtypes. This library was developed during a Summer Studentship project at the Astrophysics Research Centre at Queen's University Belfast. A 'Template Generator' Jupyter Notebook is also available which can be used to append further spectra to the library at the user's convenience.

## **Super-SNID Templates Installation Instructions**

**Replace Files in Source Folder**

Download the ‘snid.inc’ and ‘typeinfo.f’ files from the GitHub repository.

‘snid.inc’ has been modified to increase the total number of templates, types and subtypes allowed in SNID. ‘typeinfo.f’ defines the hierarchy of the new types and subtypes.

Replace the existing files within the ‘Source’ sub-directory of the main SNID directory with these new files.

**Import New Templates**

We include two .zip files. "QUB-SNID Templates.zip" contains only the new templates created during this project. "templates.zip" is an amalgation of all new templates along with the original SNID templates, and templates from external sources. See corresponding paper and citation section for further details.

To obtain the full template library, download and decompress ‘templates.zip’ file from the GitHub repository.

Replace the original templates folder within the main SNID directory with this new templates folder.

**Recompile SNID**

Finally, it is necessary to recompile SNID in order to enact these changes.

To do so run the following two commands in the terminal while in the SNID directory :

make realclean; make

make install

**Your SNID should now contain the additional Super-SNID templates and subtypes**

**Citations and Acknowledgements**

This work has made use of the data products generated by the Berkeley SNIa Program, released under DOI:10.1111/j.1365-2966.2012.21270.x.

This work has made use of the data products generated by the Modjaz group (formerly NYU SN group), released under DOI:10.5281/zenodo.58766, and available at their Github repository https://github.com/nyusngroup/SESNtemple/.